lore 2: 

title: Lucis wants to talk

content: Lucis: I don't know where you are from, but where I lived,
people used to be themselves. 
We appreciated our home hive, our environment and
our wellbeing. I'm grateful for such an upbringing, can't 
really ask for anything else...





Yet, I've noticed the social climate change over the last 
few years, isolation increasing, more people utilizing each other 
at the cost of collaboration, rather than collaborating with occasional 
utilization, justifying such behaviour with so-called immutable rules, 
such as: 
- "life is a ruthless competition, just look at nature"
- "this is what others do"
- "you can't be forgiving, you have to win above all else"
- "winner-takes-all!"
- "I can't change those around me, I have to adapt" 

Funny, I already sensed something was missing in these arguments. 
I mean, if life is a ruthless competition, how could we Vitalizers have
come so far? No way ruthless competition is the only explanation, 
that would result in an anarchy!
And guess what, after doing some basic research, I found out that 
collaboration is very common in nature! In many animal packs, the
boss is usually the most socially skilled individual, clearly knowing
how to fullfill the needs of the other members more or less, taking
care of others and encouraging others to do the same. Of course,
the boss is not perfect, problems arises and gets fixed, and 
sometimes others try to throw him away from the throne as they
insist hierarchy-change would be more benificial. Considering
this dynamic hasn't changed for over thousads of years, I'd guess
whenever a new boss arises, it's usually for the benifit of the pack,
as the new one fullfills needs the previous one couldn't fullfill, but
now I'm speculating hard, and it's complicated as some die or get
thrown out from such conflicts. 

Anyways, my real point here is that the bullies, the cynical, the 
antisocial, the ones being highly egoistical (often they are the same), 
tend to be lowly socially skilled, and these individuals, because of bad
social skills, collaborability, and seing competition where there is 
none, HAHA, TEND TO GET THROWN OUT! AND OF COURSE THEY GET
THROWN OUT, NO ONE WANTS THEM, THEY'RE AN UNPLEASANTRY
FOR THOSE AROUND THEM! AND WHY WOULDN'T THIS BE DIFFERENT
FOR US!? We're not disconnected from these creatures in the evolutionary
prosess, we're a continuation, in some sense, from these creatures, and
considering we Vitalizers have, at least in some places, created a very
inclusive and forgiving and cohesive and whatnot great society, I think
it's reasonable to conclude COLLABORATION IS THE MAIN FEATURE OF 
LIFE, NOT COMPETITION! Although competition has its place too. Like, 
when social collaboration could be better, perhaps competition is 
necesarry to enforce such cohesion, cohesion which avoids 
unecesarry competition. 

So, the social environment... Yes. Funny, while more people became
more isolated and cynical, more competetive, or perhaps, unnecesarrely
competetive, more also seemed to lose direction. Few people started
having frightened looks, as if they were awaiting a predator tearing
them appart in a few moments. Others seemed hopeless, as if they
had nothing more to do here, just awaiting the grave. Yea, they clearly
hadn't read the Thaloria or attended such thaloristic rituals to get 
guidance, probably insisting that they had to make it on their own.
Making it on their own, instead of learning from the mistakes of the 
previous generations to avoid such repetition, knowledge and wisdom
which would make it easier to enter more positive cycles,
making advancement easier. 

So, including becomming more hostile outwards, more  
became hostile inwards as well, insisting there is no such thing as 
value, that life has no purpouse and is meaningless. HECK, some people
even starting, HAHAHA... To... DENY EXISTENCE ITSELF! 

*ROFL*
*ROFL*
*ROFL*
*ROFL*
*ROFL*
*ROFL*
*ROFL*

HAHAHAHA! IMAGINE! 
INSISTING THERE IS NO VALUE IS A VALUE
ITSELF, 
YOU MUST HAVE PURPOUSE AND MEANING TO DENY 
PURPOUSE AND MEANING, 
AND OF COUSE, HOW CAN YOU
DENY EXPERIENCE WHEN YOU EXPERIENCE THE DENIAL ITSELF?
Of course, each vitalizer can't experience everything, we all have 
filters enclosing only a small aspect of reality, BUT THAT'S NO 
GODDAMN EXCUSE FOR DENYING EXPERIENCE ITSELF!

So, you can understand I didn't quite like the devolution there,
so I tried talking with people about what I was experiencing. 
Usually I got told I was making things up, that I was imagining things,
that I was misunderstanding others around me, being pessimistic,
only taking my own egoistical view. 
When I tried challenging their
views directly, most of them felt repelled and withdrew instanly,
only a few insisted discussing, people I could come to a mutual
understanding with, such as that it might affect just some, it might be
temporary, and there will always be those who are unaffected by such
trends, at the same time as some agreed that something was indeed 
happening. 
I also noticed I could direct people over to my opininon by 
questioning their own assumptions rather than challenging them, 
questions meant to display the fragile foundation of their convictions, 
although somewere annoyed by what seemed like a small interrogation.

But my activity didn't seem to change the devolution. 

So I started wandering to other social environments, other 
hives, talking about my experiences and understanding the 
thoughts and convictions of others. I usually got the same refutations, 
even though I could notice these groups being affected by more 
or less the same lack of values, purpouse and meaning. 

Which surprised me, cause this "lackness" seemed to have spread 
like a pandemic, not just affecting my hive-home in isolation. Why and how
has this happened? I don't know. 

STILL, perhaps I'm ignoring all those who are actually doing good, being
good, as I might actually have a propensity towards noticing the bad stuff.
So a slight increase in "bad" mood around might cause me to overestimate 
the true environment around me. 
I mean, come on, we are goddamn MASTERS OF OUR SOLAR SYSTEM! 
We can mitigate natural catastrophes of any kind, be that solar storms, 
asteroid showers, gamma-ray-bursts, infections, planetary magnetic 
pole flips, mass extinctions, abrupt climate change, and so much more! 
And we have more time and energy in our hands than ever, allowing us to 
access abilities we could never have thought of before, allowingus to 
participate in this open-ended, never-ending creation called existence in 
the most beautiful ways! And of course, all that knowledge, wisdom, 
activities, sports, services, systems, organisations, entertainment and 
more from the previous generations, bestly condensed in the Thaloria, 
yet also distributed over alot of sources, allows us to continue where 
others left behind. So, in many ways we practically live in a paradise.
Ah, what did we do to deserve this? ?  ?   ?    ?

That's right, we're actually creators, active participators of our world, 
actively shaping it to become better than it was when we first 
encountered it. And that, buddy, that is the conviction a group, a group 
I found while wandering, shared, and still shares, as I'm part of it today, 
a think-tank, but more of an action-tank,or an action-engine, or whatever 
you wanna call it, but YOU GET THE IDEA! THESE WERE PEOPLE CLEARLY 
WANTING TO CHANGE THE TREND FOR THE BETTER! 
I still belong to that group, 

the group trying to FIND THE SOURCE OF IMMORTALITY!




And yes, if it wasn't obvious already, I am bipolar and have mania.
Looking forwards to accompany you on this journey. Do you?
