lore 3

title: Approaching truth?

content (inspired by Iain McGilchrist's the master and his emisarry, and the matter with things, the hemisphere hypothesis. THe matter with things we will draw more inspiration from):

"The universe the vitalizers thrive in, their shared, infinite home,
has a core. A core of knowledge, wisdom, strength, inspiration. 
Each vitalizer can approach that core, either directly, or indirectly 
from other vitalizers experiences, through its own tuning of 
its experience, the experience of the union of the division between two 
simplier apporaches of interacting with reality. Each approach is 
cohesive in itself, yet they're incompatible in some ways, hence the 
division within this union. 

The wholistic approach percepts the unknown, apprehends
the new, sees relations, processes, flows, unifications, 
understands uncertanty, context, implicitness, uniqueness and 
emboides and connects with reality and life. This one approaches
the core, and although no vitalizer has truly accessed it yet, the best
attempts have still been fruitful, considering everything the vitalizers
have accomplished throughout history. 

The divisionist approach prefers the known, and ignores what
it can't understand, sees isolations, staticities, discretisations,
division, and mostly, if not always, only understands the certain,
the abstract, the explicit, the general and the artificial. This one
is adept at utilizing things for very specific purpouses,
thus constructing an artificial, mechanistic, yet useful reality 
by rejecting or not rejecting information the wholistic approach gives 
it, a reality the wholistic approach can gain support from in further 
apprehension of the unknown, in its approach towards the core.

Yet, in a few vitalizers, that support is something the divisionary
approach refuses to give, as in its artificial world it doesn't understand
that it needs the wholistic approach to align that world with reality,
insisting it can make it on its own. And lack of support usually follows
surpression of the other approach, almost always causing delusionary 
understanding of reality, sometimes with dangerous consequences, as 
the divisionary approach struggles with empathizing with life around it,
causing criminal and other anti-social behaviour. 
This is a common pathway to evilness, evilness from ignorance, 
ignorance in the form of evilness, a pathway the Vitalitaz civilization 
hasn't blocked.

Perhaps it shouldn't be blocked either, as such would impede free will, 
a freedom only true goodness can arise from, the only goodness which 
can truly handle evilness, with the small cost that such a freedom also
allows vitalizers to do and be evil. So the Vitalitaz civilisation insists on 
encouraging voluntarily character development as the least worst
option for social harmony."

- Telepathor 3542 from "The Master of Things", by Ion MoreGeist










Lucis: Yeah, sure, that was, something, very totally understandable, 
perhaps I should boot up the idea-map. Alot of terms, I don't quite 
understand how they're connected, or the significance of these. 
Surely it'll click soon.


And some of those from my  "home" could surely enjoy this holograph. 
Read: dread.





